# Built-in Skills

----

**This file is automatically generated from java files. Do Not Edit It.**

----

## Introduction

Skills are built-in modules, written in Java, that provide a set of related built-in variables and built-in actions (in addition to those already provided by GAMA) to the species that declare them. A declaration of skill is done by filling the skills attribute in the species definition:

```
species my_species skills: [skill1, skill2] {
    ...
}
```

Skills have been designed to be mutually compatible so that any combination of them will result in a functional species. An example of skill is the `moving` skill.
  
So, for instance, if a species is declared as:

```
species foo skills: [moving]{
...
}
```

Its agents will automatically be provided with the following variables : `speed`, `heading`, `destination` and the following actions: `move`, `goto`, `wander`, `follow` in addition to those built-in in species and declared by the modeller. Most of these variables, except the ones marked read-only, can be customized and modified like normal variables by the modeller. For instance, one could want to set a maximum for the speed; this would be done by redeclaring it like this:

```
float speed max:100 min:0;
```

Or, to obtain a speed increasing at each simulation step:

```
float speed max:100 min:0  <- 1 update: speed * 1.01;
```

Or, to change the speed in a behavior:

```
if speed = 5 {
    speed <- 10;
}
```

----


## Table of Contents
<wiki:toc max_depth="3" />

[messaging](#messaging), [moving](#moving), [moving3D](#moving3d), 
    	
----

[//]: # (keyword|skill_messaging)
## messaging
A simple skill that provides agents with a mailbox than can be filled with messages
 
### Variables
	   
  * **`mailbox`** (`list`): The list of messages that can be consulted by the agent 
 	
### Actions
	  
	 
#### **`send`**


* returns: msi.gama.extensions.messaging.GamaMessage 			
* **`to`** (any type): The agent, or server, to which this message will be sent to 			
* **`contents`** (any type): The contents of the message, an arbitrary object
    	
----

[//]: # (keyword|skill_moving)
## moving
The moving skill is intended to define the minimal set of behaviours required for agents that are able to move on different topologies
 
### Variables
	   
  * **`current_edge`** (`geometry`): Represents the agent/geometry on which the agent is located (only used with a graph)   
  * **`current_path`** (`path`): Represents the path on which the agent is moving on (goto action on a graph)   
  * **`destination`** (`point`): Represents the next location of the agent if it keeps its current speed and heading (read-only)   
  * **`heading`** (`int`): Represents the absolute heading of the agent in degrees.   
  * **`location`** (`point`): Represents the current position of the agent   
  * **`real_speed`** (`float`): Represents the actual speed of the agent (in meter/second)   
  * **`speed`** (`float`): Represents the speed of the agent (in meter/second) 
 	
### Actions
	  
	 
#### **`follow`**
moves the agent along a given path passed in the arguments.

* returns: path 			
* **`speed`** (float): the speed to use for this move (replaces the current value of speed) 			
* **`path`** (path): a path to be followed. 			
* **`move_weights`** (map): Weights used for the moving. 			
* **`return_path`** (boolean): if true, return the path followed (by default: false)  
	 
#### **`goto`**
moves the agent towards the target passed in the arguments.

* returns: path 			
* **`target`** (geometry): the location or entity towards which to move. 			
* **`speed`** (float): the speed to use for this move (replaces the current value of speed) 			
* **`on`** (any type): graph, topology, list of geometries or map of geometries that restrain this move 			
* **`recompute_path`** (boolean): if false, the path is not recompute even if the graph is modified (by default: true) 			
* **`return_path`** (boolean): if true, return the path followed (by default: false) 			
* **`move_weights`** (map): Weights used for the moving.  
	 
#### **`move`**
moves the agent forward, the distance being computed with respect to its speed and heading. The value of the corresponding variables are used unless arguments are passed.

* returns: path 			
* **`speed`** (float): the speed to use for this move (replaces the current value of speed) 			
* **`heading`** (int): the angle (in degree) of the target direction. 			
* **`bounds`** (geometry): the geometry (the localized entity geometry) that restrains this move (the agent moves inside this geometry  
	 
#### **`wander`**
Moves the agent towards a random location at the maximum distance (with respect to its speed). The heading of the agent is chosen randomly if no amplitude is specified. This action changes the value of heading.

* returns: void 			
* **`speed`** (float): the speed to use for this move (replaces the current value of speed) 			
* **`amplitude`** (int): a restriction placed on the random heading choice. The new heading is chosen in the range (heading - amplitude/2, heading+amplitude/2) 			
* **`bounds`** (geometry): the geometry (the localized entity geometry) that restrains this move (the agent moves inside this geometry) 			
* **`on`** (graph): the graph that restrains this move (the agent moves on the graph 			
* **`proba_edges`** (map): When the agent moves on a graph, the probability to choose another edge. If not defined, each edge has the same probability to be chosen
    	
----

[//]: # (keyword|skill_moving3D)
## moving3D
The moving skill 3D is intended to define the minimal set of behaviours required for agents that are able to move on different topologies
 
### Variables
	   
  * **`destination`** (`point`): continuously updated destination of the agent with respect to its speed and heading (read-only)   
  * **`heading`** (`int`): the absolute heading of the agent in degrees (in the range 0-359)   
  * **`pitch`** (`int`): the absolute pitch of the agent in degrees (in the range 0-359)   
  * **`roll`** (`int`): the absolute roll of the agent in degrees (in the range 0-359)   
  * **`speed`** (`float`): the speed of the agent (in meter/second) 
 	
### Actions
	  
	 
#### **`move`**
moves the agent forward, the distance being computed with respect to its speed and heading. The value of the corresponding variables are used unless arguments are passed.

* returns: path 			
* **`speed`** (float): the speed to use for this move (replaces the current value of speed) 			
* **`heading`** (int): int, optional, the direction to take for this move (replaces the current value of heading) 			
* **`pitch`** (int): int, optional, the direction to take for this move (replaces the current value of pitch) 			
* **`heading`** (int): int, optional, the direction to take for this move (replaces the current value of roll) 			
* **`bounds`** (geometry): the geometry (the localized entity geometry) that restrains this move (the agent moves inside this geometry